= Standard connectRules compile script =
$AMSHOME/tools/affirma_ams/etc/install/amsConnectLibCompile
= You are using the AMS in ADE with OSS Netlister and would like to add connect rule from connect rules file.=
== Problem ==
Is there any way to setup AMS in ADE to automatically add connect rule from connect rule file, to the list of connect rules used in simulation?
== Solution ==
For one connect rule add the following to .cdsinit file: 
  envSetVal("ams.envOpts" "rulesAndModulesFiles" 'string "/home/user1/ConnRules_full_fast.vams")
  envSetVal("ams.envOpts" "rulesNames" 'string "ConnRules_1v")
    This example will add ConnRules_12V_full_fast to list of connect rules used in simulation
 For multiple connect rules add the following to .cdsinit file:
  envSetVal("ams.envOpts" "rulesAndModulesFiles" 'string "/home/user1/ConnRules_full_fast.vams")
  envSetVal("ams.envOpts" "rulesNames" 'string "ConnRules_12V_full_fast ConnRules_15V_full_fast")
 This example will add ConnRules_12V_full_fast & ConnRules_15V_full_fast to list of connect rules used in simulation

 also:

  envSetVal("ams.envOpts" "selectRules" 'string "User defined")
  envSetVal("ams.envOpts" "userRuleLib" 'string "connectLib")
  envSetVal("ams.envOpts" "userRuleCell" 'string "mixedsignal")
  envSetVal("ams.envOpts" "userRuleView" 'string "connect")
= How to add user defined connect rules to "Built-in" cyclic field in ADE =
== Problem ==
You have written some "user-defined" connect rules and you would like to compile them and keep them in a common place so that they can be seen in ADE for all users.
How is this done?
== Solution ==
This can be done by creating a connectRules.il file. You may follow the below steps to do this.
1) Compile your connect modules once in a library. Say you have compiled it in a library "MY_CONNECTLIB"
2) Create a connectRules.il file with the above connect modules information. Ex:
% genConnRulesFile -destpath /home/central -lib MY_CONNECTLIB /home/central/myconnect_lib/*.vams
If your connect modules have *.v extension, please change them to *.vams. The above command will create a connectRules.il file in /home/central directory and this will have information about the modules compiled in MY_CONNECTLIB
For more information regarding the usage of genConnRulesFile, please refer to Chapter 2, 'Environment Setup' of "Virtuoso Analog Design Environment User Guide",  
3) Keep this connectRules.il in user home directory or in current working directory or inside the library containing these compiled connect modules. In this case, it's MY_CONNECTLIB. Please refer to above mentioned documentaion for more details regarding the connectModules.il search order. 
4) In user's cds.lib file, define and add the path to MY_CONNECTLIB library where you have compiled it centrally.
5) Now, when the user opens ADE-> Setup-> Connect Rules window, these compiled connect modules will appear in 'Built-In' section. Please be noted that this information is picked from the connectRules.il file and hence it's visible in 'Built-In' section.
In this way, a CAD engineer can compile connect modules in a central location, create a connectRules.il and provide this file to all users. And these modules will be visible in ADE for them.
= you have major changes (or want to define alternative connect rule library =
* Create an empty library connectlib
* modify the files you want in src directory and recompile:
* genConnRulesFile -lib connectlib  <path_to_src>/*.vams

