How to display the checkedout version of schematic in GDM based DM software like designSync?

Problem
How to display the version number of schematic cellview on a sheet, while working in DesignSync, VersionSync?
Solution
You can do it using the SKILL program given at the end. DesignSync supplies SKILL command dssGetViewVersionP(lib cell view) to achieve this.
 
You may put the complete program in .cdsinit file or put the following line in your .cdsinit file and store the code in file named CCSVsGetCurrentVersion.il.
------------
load "<full_path_name>/CCSVsGetCurrentVersion.il"
------------
 
Add a label in the Asize(Sheet) symbol view, of type "ILLabel". Put the following line in text field :
 
strcat( "Version: " CCSVsGetCurrentVersion( ilInst~>cellView ) )
 
When you open a cell schematic view (with the Asize symbol), the current value (version) of a cellview will be shown.
 
/*******************************************************************************
*  DISCLAIMER: The following code is provided for Cadence customers to use at  *
*   their own risk. The code may require modification to satisfy the           *
*   requirements of any user. The code and any modifications to the code may   *
*   not be compatible with current or future versions of Cadence products.     *
*   THE CODE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND WITH NO WARRANTIES, INCLUDING WITHOUT     *
*   LIMITATION ANY EXPRESS WARRANTIES OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY *
*   OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR USE.                                           *
*******************************************************************************/
;   Tested in     : IC5141
;   SKILL Lint Score IC5.1.41 (Max=100) : 100
;   SKILL Audit IC5141: Passed, no private functions were found.
; ============ Cut Here ===================
; File name is CCSvsGetCurrentVersion.il
 
procedure( CCSVsGetCurrentVersion( cv )
let( (myspec returnval )
myspec=gdmCreateSpec("" "" "" cv~>fileName "CDBA")
returnval = gdmstatus(myspec 10)
returnval = cadr( parseString(caar(returnval) ))
) ;end of let
) ; end of procedure
 
============ Upto Here ===================
 
Although this solution is written for versionsync, it will work for any Design manager integrated into DFII using GDM interface.
 
Note: This SKILL code will not work on IC446 and earlier releases because SKILL function gdmstatus() got introduced in IC5.0 onwards.