= Write NTFS =
sudo echo LABEL=drivename none ntfs rw,auto,nobrowse >> /etc/fstab
then in Spotlight type /Volumes to see the folder
= press and hold feature enable/disable =
iwhen you hold down down a key, you're presented with alternatives. It can be enabled/disabled
defaults write -g ApplePressAndHoldEnabled -bool false
= all sorts of startup key combinations =
https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT201255
* Press SHIFT after power - Safe mode
* OPTION                  - Startup manager
* C                       - Bootable CD/USB
* System recovery 
    Command-R or COMMAND-OPTION-R 
* AHT (hardware test) or Apple Diagnostics 
    D or OPTION D
= swap =
 * disable
sudo launchctl unload -w /System/Library/LaunchDaemons/com.apple.dynamic_pager.plist
 * delete (after disabling)
sudo rm /private/var/vm/swapfile*
 * enable
sudo launchctl load /System/Library/LaunchDaemons/com.apple.dynamic_pager.plist
= restart from cmd =
sudo shutdown -h now
sudo shutdown -r now
= Change host name as it is displayed in terminal window =
sudo scutil --set HostName name-you-want
= reset NVRAM =
* Shut down your Mac.
* Locate the following keys on the keyboard: Command (⌘), Option, P, and R. 
* Turn on your Mac.
* Press and hold the Command-Option-P-R keys immediately after you hear the startup sound.
= SMC RESET =
* Shut down the computer.
* Plug in the MagSafe power adapter to a power source, connecting it to the Mac if its not already connected.
* On the built-in keyboard, press the (left side) Shift-Control-Option keys and the power button at the same time.
* Release all the keys and the power button at the same time.
* Press the power button to turn on the computer.
= features =
http://lifehacker.com/5824564/how-to-de-ios-ify-mac-os-x-lion

