How/when does portOrder property get created on a cellview?

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



Problem
In my schematic composer environment, some of my schematics

have a portOrder cellview property whereas some others don't .

 

What triggers the creation of this property ? What is this property

used for and what tools/flow does this affect ?

Solution
Here is a detailed explanation on portOrder cellview property :

 

#######################

I. What is the purpose of the portOrder Property ?

------------------------------------------------

Assumption for the following piece of information is that you are 

using Verilog text views and are running into problems with the 

portOrder property that is placed on many cdba views for the same 

cell.

 

In general, the portOrder property should exist on the schematic, 

symbol, and other cdba cellviews whenever the verilog text view 

has a port order that differs from the default ordering (Default 

ordering is : output ports first,then input pins, then inputOutput pins, 

with each group sorted alphanumerically).

 

Since cdba views have no implicit ordering of their terminals, the 

portOrder property helps some cdba based netlisters decide how to 

make connections across the hierarchy when verilog netlisting is done

using connections by order (rather than by name).

 

When netlisting via the Analog Design Environment, netlisters will use

the "termOrder" CDF property read from the simInfo section for the 

appropriate netlister unless the portOrder property exists on the cell. 

When the portOrder property is set, the netlister will use the order it

specifies.

 

 

II. When is the portOrder Property Created ?

-------------------------------------------

 

1) Verilog Integration:

 

The port order property is most frequently created by the Verilog

Intergration code.  When the verilog text editor is Exited, a derived 

cdba file is created and added to the same view directory that stores 

the verilog text file.   When the port ordering is non-default, then the 

portOrder property should be created on this derived cdba file.

NOTE the word "Exited" above.  If the customer uses the Save 

command in their text editor, the portOrder property has not yet been 

updated on the derived viewFile.

 

Also, if there is no symbol view for this cell, then verilog integration

environment may create a new symbol cellview for this cell with a 

portOrder property.

If the symbol already exist, then the "Port Order Mismatch" form will

appear stating that either the ports don't match or the port order property

is out of date and may be updated by clicking on a button in that form.

 

 

2) Create Cellview From Cellview:

 

Another major creator of the portOrder property for symbol and 

schematic cellviews is the  Design->Create Cellview->From Cellview 

commands in Composer.

The exact behavior depends on the functions that are registered 

with the "Cellview To Cellview" code.  However, using the default 

conversion functions supplied by Cadence for creating symbol and 

schematic views, both viewToPinList and pinListToView functionality 

will pass an existing portOrder property from the source view to the 

destination view whenever the portOrder property exists on the 

source view.

 

3) The Edit->Properties->PinOrder command can create a portOrder 

property:

 

Initially, when the Edit Pin Order form appears, it displays an 

ordered list of terminal names that either comes from an existing 

portOrder property or if the portOrder property does not yet exist, 

it displays the current terminal names listed in default order.

If the user changes the ordering of the form and hits OK or Apply,

then the portOrder property on this cellview will be created or modified.

 

III. Interactive Commands that Modify the portOrder Property

-----------------------------------------------------------

 

Below is a list of the interactive commands (in the schematic and 

symbol editor windows) that can modify the portOrder property:

 

- Add->Pin

 

     Modifies the portOrder property when a new pin is created and

     the portOrder or hnlVerilogFormatInst properties already exist

     in the cellview being edited.

 

- Edit->Delete

 

     Modifies the portOrder property when the last pin for a terminal is

     deleted and the portOrder or hnlVerilogFormatInst properties already

     exists in the cellview being edited.

 

- Edit->Move

 

     When the Move is a 'cross-cellview' move: this case is treated

     like a Delete->Pin in the source cellview and an Add->Pin in the

     destination cellview (see above).

 

- Edit->Properties->Objects

 

     Modifies the portOrder property when a pin's terminal is renamed from

     the Edit Properties form and the portOrder or hnlVerilogFormatInst

     properties already exists in the cellview being edited.

 

- Edit->Properties->Pin Order

 

     Modifies the ordering of the portOrder property.  Creates the portOrder

     property, if it doesn't already exist, when the OK or Apply buttons are

     hit.

     If the cellview being edited does not contain either the portOrder

     or hnlVerilogFormatInst properties, then this command displays the

     default ordering as defined by Verilog-XL.  This ordering is:

     ----------------------------------

     outputs sorted alphabetically

     inputs sorted alphabetically

     input/outputs sorted alphabetically

     ----------------------------------

  NOTE: If the "Copy From" option is used to get portOrder property 

  from a different view  AND that view has a different set of

  terminals, then the portOrder property added to the current cellview

  will not be consistent with the current cellview's set of terminals.

#########################

 

Additional Information :

----------------------

Schematic or Symbol Check & Save command does not add, delete, 

or modify the portOrder property.

The Check part of Check & Save(Check->CurrentCellview) only issues

warning/error messages that indicate inconsistencies with the port 

order property of this view vs. the terminals of this view 

  OR

the terminals or portOrder properties of other views of the same cell. 

 

Related Solutions
